so I'm crawling around in the pitch
darkness and my only view is through the
camera okay I've got a snake in front of
me and absolutely effective position and
posture so I'm just gonna hang out now
and hope to catch it striking on camera
it's pull itself back up into the rocks
he probably heard me and it's feeling a
little bit intimidated I just have to
push on a little bit further into the
cave every night the bats have to run
the gauntlet past these hanging Huntsman
to get out into the forests and feed
there are tens of thousands of bats and
these must be some of the best fed
snakes on earth
it's alright the night snakes can get to
over a metre and a half in length and
this one doesn't look far off this is
incredible
he's just hanging down striking out into
the air and it seems like it's the
vibrations that are caused by the bats
as they're flying past her that her
he's centering on it's not so much other
cues as just the pure movement of the
bats he's gone this is actually he's got
it's got one right now I didn't quite
get the strike on camera I'm gonna so
fast it's it's wrapping coils of the
body around the bat and now what its
gonna do is squeeze there's science that
shows that constricting snakes can
actually sense the heartbeat of their
preys they can tell if the animal is
still alive so as soon as this bat is
completely dead it'll start to swallow
it and that's when I can think about
calling in the camera crew there's seven
nominal sight these bats are leaving in
enormous numbers there are tens of
thousands of bats flying through here
and they're traveling so quickly but
this snake in total pitch darkness still
has the wherewithal the speed to strike
out and catch these bats in flight it's
just a remarkable feeding strategy
Johnny Johnny now the night snakes
swallowing the bat it shouldn't be put
off by our lights
you see it's maneuvered the baton so
that its head first and it's starting to
work it down its throat
it's an extraordinary achievement just
purely to get this bat and down its
throat
so can i it's pretty grotesque really is
eating about there's many times larger
than its own head
and you can see it's quite a fat bodied
snake I mean once it's got this one down
into his stomach it might easily feed
again possibly even twice more tonight
they are absolutely extraordinary snakes
I'm looking down into their tiny needle
shot backwards pointing teeth that are
delivering that back bat back into its
gullet and you can see it having quite a
struggle getting the animal down you can
see the exact shape of the bat running
right down at the back of its throat
the bat munching Mexican night snake
quick enough in strike to catch the
fastest flying mammals on the wing
definitely deadly
[Music]
you